Israel has stepped up its bombardment of
Southern Gaza as its military expands
its ground offensive against Hamas
militants now Israel has told hundreds
of thousands to evacuate from the area
around K Yunis and head towards the
Mediterranean Coast or further south
towards the border with Egypt but the
United Nations says there is nowhere
safe to go in
Gaza in Han Unice residents say they are
running out of safe places to
[Music]
go Israel's aerial bombardment around
this area of Southern Gaza is now
Relentless with the number of dead and
injured being delivered to this
Hospital growing by the
hour
among them ibrahim's two-month-old son
Adnan born just days into this conflict
and now lying injured on a hospital
bed they taught us to leave Gaza there's
a war in Gaza so we left the North and
came here to the South just like they
asked but this is what we found in the
South what can we do this is my son he
was born on the second day of the war
and we haven't been able to register as
birth
yet Israel's military has called for
more evacuations in southern Gaza as it
continues to extend its ground operation
against Hamas
militants this latest video from the
Israel Defense Forces is set to show
troops involved in Close Quarter
fighting inside the Gaza
Strip
although we're not told where or when
this footage was taken Israeli tanks
have been reportedly spotted close to
Han Yunis in the
South IDF forces in the Gaza Strip
continue to expand ground operations we
attack today with fighter jets in the
entire Gaza Strip significant and very
precise strikes based on intelligence in
addition we are expanding the ground
operation against Hamas centers of
gravity everywhere in the Gaza
Strip for those choosing to
flee this is what
awaits in this so-called safe Zone
people say they are getting no help and
do their best to set up makeshift
shelters however and wherever how long
they'll be able to seek Refuge here
nobody
knows what is certain though is Israel's
determination to wipe out
Hamas and that it's offensive inside
Gaza is unlikely to
stop until that mission is
accomplished journalist ham belala used
to live in and report from Gaza he's
joining us today from Jordan it's good
to see you haam can you tell us what
you're hearing uh about the situation in
in Gaza at the
moment situation in Gaza is getting um
um more intense bombardment um it's all
over the Gaza Strip the reports coming
from there um that there were ER strikes
and chilling from the tanks or artillery
or even the Navy ships um uh in across
the G strip mainly the most intense was
in two areas um in North Gaza in vahia
and Valia and the main one is in the
south in east of kanun and other parts
of of kanun um there was a Blackout um
communication went off um uh yesterday
evening and but the reports coming today
in the morning that it comes back uh
gradually in some
parts now we know that Israel's military
is calling for more
evacuations um in southern Gaza where
are people now expected to take
shelter it's very hard I mean this is
always um asked by by Ordinary People we
are talking about 1 1.9 million um uh
people from Gaza got displaced according
to the figures
from hona and un agencies uh 1.2 million
are Sheltering um at HW schools um um in
uh
156 um
schools which is very small the number
is they are talking about about 1
million in the south in about 100 um uh
schools um the an overcrowded um spread
of of diseases among the the refugees
there um it's very hard um and as the
owner in the latest report said that uh
many people literally slept in the
street or at the entrance of the
shelters or the school in in in in the
southern area because there is no place
and no um no areas to go some people go
to some relatives some uh some neighbors
or some friends some people rent but
it's not available there um I can see it
on on the social media everybody is
asking if there is a place to rent or a
place to go um it's very hard we are
talking about a huge number of uh
refugees uh going to very small area mhm
if we take a look at Israel's operations
in the south of Gaza now specifically
the city of Han yunes do we know why
efforts are being focused there in
particular right
now kis is part of the second phase
according to the Israeli Army that is is
going to be targeted um the first phase
was focusing on the North Gaza City and
the Northern Area despite that still
some part of it like is under um uh uh
ground Invasion now in in sorry in
jabalia in the north and Cha East of
Gaza City but the main focus on kanun
Israel is saying that this is the part
hunis is the biggest city in the south
of Gaza STP and and it's the widest
among the other cities in in in in the
whole Gaza STP uh Israel says that um
some Hamas figures are there um it's not
clear yet um who are there but according
to the statements from Israeli army or
different other agencies that it's U
it's part of the the battle and it's
going to last for for some time now the
focus in um in parts of kanun not all of
it mainly the East and the north part of
kanun ham Bela reporting from Aman
thanks so much for your time H uh
ham thank
you now after weeks of bombardment by
Israel only a few of gaza's hospitals
are still in operation the World Health
Organization has announced that it will
be holding an emergency session later
this week to discuss the health care
situation in Gaza Aid agencies have
already warned that health conditions
there are dire DW reporter Muhammad Al
khut sent us this report from Han
Unis increasing numbers of displaced
Palestinians are falling victim to
deadly infections and there are fears
that hepatitis diarrhea and respiratory
illnesses could cause more deaths than
bombs and missiles
here in the south of the Gaza Strip Dina
Abu TSH takes her daughter to a clinic
in Han
[Music]
Unice my daughter is suffering from
fever cough and
cold we were displaced to these schools
and there are many children
here the children have caught infections
because of
overcrowding the situation is difficult
for my daughter but also for other
children
[Music]
but it's not only the health
infrastructure that is overwhelmed other
critical infrastructure is also lacking
and there's not enough drinkable water
or food many gens have resorted to
eating just one meal a day prioritizing
children as more families flee the
conflict poor sanitation is becoming
widespread across the besieged strip
causing hygiene related diseases
such as lice infestation and
scabies making it harder for health
authorities to control disease
outbreaks at present there's no way of
controlling the spread of infection
especially with the war continuing
there's a lack of water suitable for
human consumption along with a shortage
of energy and electricity to operate
generators the overcrowding and transfer
of people to shelters and the failure to
provide personal Supply to limit the
spread of
diseases health organizations have
repeatedly sounded the alarm that the
situation is becoming deadlier by the
day deas had to wait for hours to buy
Essentials like medicine for her sick
daughter about 1.8 million garans are
now displaced and hopes that the
situation could improve arwi
dwindling for more Let's cross straight
to DW correspondent Rebecca RS who joins
us now from Jerusalem Rebecca can you
give us the latest on uh Israeli
operations in the south of the Gaza
Strip well what we know Anor is that
since Sunday evening we've had
confirmation that this ground operation
has now spread to the south of the Gaza
Strip and in fact is now moving towards
the entire Gaza Strip we know that the
focus is on the southern city of Han
yunas and tanks and armored personnel
vehicle uh and and soldiers in fighting
in combat uh hand-to-hand combat in
those areas we know that the bombardment
uh is continuing in the South also in
the north which as you heard in that
report is virtually a closed military
zone now that northern part of the strip
the strip as we've known for some time
now has been completely split in two and
we know that all civilians uh were asked
to leave uh to head south to evacuate
South which is now since the resumption
of fighting on Friday where the Israeli
Defense Forces or the Israeli military
are are working towards and focusing on
Han unas being uh the focal point we
know it's a symbolic uh and the the
Israeli military say also um a central
fighting area for Hamas militants that
it is you know for one of a better word
a command center uh an area where they
believe that the Hamas militants operate
from and it is going to be a center uh
where they're targeting but of course
for the many millions of civilians who
are now Sheltering or trying to find
some form of safety excuse me in the
south of course things uh looking very D
with people running out of places to to
to run from the fighting absolutely I
mean you mentioned it yourself not so
long ago Israel had called on people to
move from the north to the south of Gaza
now the south is being targeted so just
clarify for us us what this means for
for the
civilians well I mean fear and uh danger
basically we're talking about 1.8
approximately million uh displaced
people who are trying to find shelter we
hear harrowing stories of people
sleeping on the streets they have
nowhere to run and hide many have mve
from evacuation point to evacuation
point during this war and they are
really running out of places to run and
hide to we know that uh many of the
places where people had been Sheltering
have also been bombed including schools
uh and hospital so people just finding
it very difficult to to to move further
south we're talking about a lot of
people now corraled into a small scrap
of land and uh the Israeli military
continued to say that they uh that they
are telling civilians uh where to go or
or to evacuate to try to prevent
civilian deaths but it's a relatively
complicated system they've set set up a
map that has these numbered squares on
it they expect civilians to be able to
locate where they are uh in that map in
that numbered map and then they give
lists uh to to to which numbers are
going to be attacked at any given moment
and then people are expected to move but
the problem really being as I mentioned
is there is where to go and many people
not knowing where to move to uh and and
also becoming increasingly tired from
the on going bombardment and and not
knowing you know where to go to feeling
that they have nowhere else to run the
W's Rebecca RS in Jerusalem thanks so
much
Rebecca